Title: "One and Done" comes to Open Source Bridge 2014!
Date: 2014-06-20 17:58
Tags: mozilla, foss, opw, event
Slug: one-and-done-osbrige
Author: Maja Frydrychowicz
Summary: As part of Open Source Bridge 2014, I'll be at the Hacker Lounge to show people how to use One and Done to get started with contributions to Mozilla, as well as help interested developers set up an development environment so they can contribute new features to the One and Done tool.

So, you want to contribute to Mozilla somehow, but you're not sure where to start or who to talk to. (I felt that way just a few months ago; the anguish is still fresh in my mind.) Fortunately, there's a tool called [One and Done](https://oneanddone.mozilla.org) that can help you complete your first contributions. But wait, there's more...

_You can drop by the __Hacker Lounge__ at [Open Source Bridge](http://www.opensourcebridge.org) to get started with contributions to Mozilla through One and Done, or get started with development of new One and Done features! I'll be there with [Liz](https://twitter.com/lizhenry), my [OPW](https://gnome.org/opw/) internship mentor, on the evening of __Wednesday, June 25th__ to guide you and answer questions. Beginners welcome!_

I've been helping out with the development of One and Done for a few weeks now, and it's great fun. The tool aims to connect new Mozilla contributors to specific tasks according to their interests, skills and available time. It also allows you to keep a record of your accomplishments at Mozilla. We have a lot more planned for it, and if you know Python and want to learn Django, you can help us add new features.

# What to Expect at the Hacker Lounge
We have two main activities that we'll be helping out with. 

## Use One and Done to Make Contributions to Mozilla
Dive right into your (first?) Mozilla contribution. You'll create a One and Done profile, pick some tasks that interest you and record your progress. If you run into any snags, we'll be there to help you out or show you how to engage with project teams through IRC, mailing lists and so on. 

If you have suggestions for how to make One and Done more useful or if you encounter a bug in the tool, we'll show you how to use Bugzilla to share your feedback with the One and Done team.

## Work on One and Done as a Python Developer
There's lots to do if you want to work on One and Done itself. It's essentially a Django project and a nice example of how web development is done at Mozilla. The [One and Done source code](https://github.com/mozilla/oneanddone) is hosted on Github.

I'll be happy to help you set up your development environment and build the project. Not a Github person yet? That's ok, I can help with that, too. :) We can chat about the project structure and some Django basics, as well as where to find project requirements and how to use Bugzilla to collaborate with the One and Done team.




