Title: Open Source Bridge 2014
Date: 2014-06-30 09:18
Tags: mozilla, foss, opw, events
Slug: osb14
Author: Maja Z. Frydrychowicz

Open Source Bridge 2014 was my first conference experience in about 5 years and my first non-academic conference. It had a great mix of talks and was thoughtfully organized and super friendly. I learned about Firefox quality assurance, communication strategies, remote work, discrimination in the tech industry and being a better human. That mix could have been totally different though: during almost every session, there were 3-4 interesting talks competing for my attention.

Attendees were welcome to help out with conference logistics and encouraged to organize spontaneous, open meetings. For example, I spent a couple of hours volunteering as a session chair, which amounts to helping each speaker set up for their talk, introducing them and giving them timing cues. 

Liz and I also set up a table at the conference Hacker Lounge to introduce potential contributors to Firefox quality assurance and One and Done. We ended up supporting four people as they each set up a development environment for One and Done. As expected, each participant ran into snags along the way with things like database configuration so it was good to work on this in a group. 

I had encountered most of these setup issues myself before, so it felt awesome to share my experience and speed up their setup process. I think the fact that One and Done was my first Django experience helped a lot: when someone is new to a project, having expert mentors is great but in many cases it's much easier to pose questions and relate to someone who is just a bit less of a beginner than you are. 

That particular Hacker Lounge session got me thinking about how easy it is for potential contributors to get discouraged by setup alone. A good readme is priceless! The One and Done readme is quite detailed and helpful, but based our experience at the Hacker Lounge, we will likely add a setup guide or dev FAQ to the projet wiki for additional support. It's silly for someone to miss out on contributing just because they're having trouble installing mysql! 

